Let's make our loop, so
it's not gonna be too crazy here.
We don't really have to do too much here.
We just need to add a while loop that
is gonna break our computer because it
doesn't stop.
[LAUGH] And then we the only
time we do stop is here, right?
We stop here when we see that
there's response dot content,
as in the AI's done, it only responds
with content when it's done.
This is the terminal message.
I am done.
I'm ready to give an answer.
There is nothing else coming after this.
So we can just stop the loop right here.
Otherwise, you're in a tool call and
you're continuing to go.
There is no other, there's no third
branch here, it's either a content or
it's tool calls there's nothing else.
So we can safely assume that,
it will never do anything else.
So let's do that, so let's go back
into our agent, and here we go.
We have this, so what we need to do
is we're gonna wrap, pretty much, and
another thing we got to
do is we got to get,
we gotta move where we get the history and
I'll talk about that in a minute.
So,
>> Scott Moss: Right now,
we get the history outside of here.
We're gonna have to move all of this
inside of a loop cuz we're gonna
be saving to history and
stuff down here, and also right here.
We wanna make sure when it comes back
around that it has the new messages that
were just generated,
otherwise it won't have those messages.
So we have to save it and then get it.
We have to get the new history
at the top of the loop and
save the new messages at
the bottom of the loop.
So when it comes back, it has the new
messages that were saved right before it.
Otherwise you have to keep
track of that in memory, and
then save them all at once, yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Did you cut a step five?
>> Scott Moss: I will cut
a step five right quick.
>> Speaker 2: I think I've actually seen
it in cases with using OpenAI stuff,
where it'll send you a content message
back before it runs some tools, and
then we'll like, think about some stuff
and then send you another content back.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, and
I think we just saw an example of that.
So like for instance, when I asked for
the weather, it was like, what city?
That's a content message.
So in that case, it's like, yeah,
I don't wanna run a tool right now,
but I might be thinking about it.
>> Speaker 2: Well, in this case for
me, it's like asking you for
recommendations about something.
The thing I've been doing, and it's
like I'll ask for the recommendations,
it'll send a message back that's like
cool let me look, let me research that.
>> Scott Moss: I see.
>> Speaker 2: And then it'll call a tool
or do a rag thing and then it'll
come back with the actual answer,
but it'll say hey,
let me look that up for you.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, what's that property
I talked about that I don't use,
I wonder what the
>> Speaker 2: The final result,
I wonder what it would say.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, I wonder what
it would say in that example,
cuz it's like, I have a content thing,
but I'm not done yet and
I expect you to loop again,
so I could continue.
I wonder what that would be,
that's interesting.
I haven't ran into that,
but that sounds terrifying.
I need to [LAUGH] make sure that doesn't
happen on my system, because it does,
it's gonna break entirely.
So that would be terrible.
Okay, so while true,
I know everything in your body is telling
you not to put that in here, but
trust me, it's gonna be fine.
While true,
we're gonna just move everything over,
one more, let's do that.
There we go, so while true,
I wanna get the history,
get the response,
save the response in the database,
execute the tool, save the tool.
This will just keep looping.
But what we wanna do is, if response
dot content, we want to stop it, and
then we just want to return
here because we're done.
There's nothing else to do.
Let me go back to my notes to
make sure I'm being consistent.
Yeah, I guess I don't need those
logs at the bottom anymore.
There we go.
So, again, we start, we get the history,
we run it through the LLM.
The LLM comes back,
we save it in database immediately.
If the LLM says, I got some content for
you, we just stop, we're like, cool, done.
So if the LLM comes back with content,
we stop, we're done.
The LLM comes back with a tool call we
run that tool, we save in the database,
and then it loops again, and then it
comes back up here, it gets to history.
The last thing that's in the database
now is the response to that tool.
So we run it back through, it's like,
cool, got the answer now,
here's my response, you know what?
I'm still not done.
Run this other tool, cool.
Run this other tool, save the answer
in the database, loops back up,
gets all the messages again, which now is
another answer to the last tool we ran.
Go back to the AI, it responds back cool,
I'm ready to answer.
Got it?
We got your answer, stop.
>> Scott Moss: That's the loop.
Let's see what we broke.
So I'm going to just say,
actually let me get rid of all this stuff.
>> Scott Moss: All right, and then
>> Scott Moss: Let's just start with hi,
and make sure we didn't break anything.
>> Scott Moss: Cool, that works,
I'm just not logging anything.
So let me make sure I log,
the thing that I need to log, and
that would be log message response,
I'll do that here.
Let's just log this in here.
Log message, response, let's do that.
Cool, let's try that again.
>> Scott Moss: What is
the weather in Mexico City?
There you go, it got the weather,
cool, so totally did the thing.
Now we have a functional agent
that doesn't do anything but
tell you it's 90 degrees all the time.
So we actually need to have
it do some cool stuff.
So if you're thinking about like, but
how would I put this on an API route?
The same way you have it now,
no difference,
you would put it on the API route.
Obviously you have different constraints
about like, if you're on serverless, I
talked about this earlier, execution time,
how long the function is on, yada yada.
If you're on a traditional server,
you don't have this problem,
you can do background jobs, there's so
many things you can do for us.
We actually, I don't even know where
to begin to describe how we do this,
but basically every turn is its own
job that can be replayed if failed.
So at any point,
if one of these turns fail,
we'll just replay it from that position,
and then we lock this process for
a user,
that way they can't submit another one.
So like, if we're already
processing a job for them, as in,
they were on their iPhone and
they submitted a message.
And then they had another iPhone, they
tried to submit another message before
this one got back ,we
stopped that from happening.
And then, we broadcast
the messages using WebSockets,
every time a new message comes back,
we send that to their clients.
So every time a message,
you just see it pop up on your phone
versus waiting until they're all done.
So that's kind of how we do it.
It works pretty good for
now, but there's other ways,
there's true streaming where you stream
token by token, which is, you know,
that's what you would see
on any chat app right now.
Claw chat GBT,
they stream the tokens as they come in.
I decided not to have that approach
because I feel like that's not human.
Humans don't type that fast.
They don't they don't do that.
If I'm chatting with a human, I see a
typing indicator, and then a message pops
up, and that feels more human to me
than like watching tokens streaming.
So we decided not to do that approach.
We also use structured outputs.
So streaming JSON is useless.
You can't do anything with
it until it's done anyway.
So yeah, it doesn't really help us out.
Back in the day, the only way people
did this was with laying chain.
And then now you can see why I said you
don't need laying chain, it's just a loop.
Yeah, of course.
>> Speaker 3: How did you debug this loop,
do you guys like LaneSmith
have relevance in practice?.
>> Scott Moss: LaneSmith is not,
in my for my opinion,
a tool like LaneSmith is not for
like debugging this, is for
improving the output of this, which is
way different than finding bugs in here.
So if you're trying to figure out how to
make the output of this system better as
in tool selection,
quality of answers, things like that.
Yeah, something like LangSmith or
any eVAL tool is gonna help you do it.
If you wanna be able to trace how long
it takes for you to get a response back,
and how many tokens you're
using tools like LangSmith and
other tools are going to help you do it.
They're just trying to figure out why
your coding working, there's no help.
[LAUGH] You got to help yourself, however,
whatever debugging tools you use and
node applies here as well.
I guess, I mean, at the end of the day,
this is just an API call.
What I like to do is,
because if you think about it,
everything is driven by this state.
It's driven by this state, right?
The AI is just driven by this state.
So you can put the AI in whatever state
you want by coming up with messages.
So I have different scenarios that I
have like literally a folder of all
these different message scenarios that
I can put through the AI to see what
it would happen.
I'm like what if a user did this and
then did this or
what if the system was in this state,
how would it respond?
And I would run through those states, and
then I would write the code
to handle those states.
And that's typically what I do.
And then the next level above
that is actually writing evals,
which is very similar, but
it's testing the quality of the output and
the accuracy and less about like
whether or not your code's gonna break.
So those are the two ways
that I handle it, and
it pretty much covers everything for me.